---
path: "blogs/2004/01/2002-2004-omnibus"
title: "2002-2004 News Omnibus"
date: "2004-01-01"
slug: "blogs/2004/01/2002-2004-omnibus"
category: "web"
cover: ""
tags:
    - web
    - community
---
2019 Update - I have amalgumated the news from 2002 to 2004 into a single post.

## Scavenger Setting V1.0
_2004/02/13_

The new Icar PDF version of the Scavenger Setting is a massive improvement on the previous HTML document. Now includes much more player information, the Botchery Clipper vehicle sheet, cluster diagrams and a massive GM section with lots of secret information. This setting should make Icar a lot easier to play for new GMs and anyone who has found the Society Section not detaied enough to run a campaign. At a whopping 46 pages, this new version has been quite a long time coming!

## Equipment Index V5.1
_2004/01/25_

A new version of the Equipment Index has been released. This update includes the Black Market rules (how to find it on a system) as well as revised prices and some new ammunition types. Also now includes the equipment sheets (Shakespear and Loki).

## Into the New Year!
_2004/01/01_

Happy new year, everyone! There are lots of bits and pieces on the near horizon. Firstly, the Scav Setting PDF is currently with the proof-readers (James 'Baron' Neesom and Travis 'T-Boy' Rodgers) and I should be getting back a massive list of errors in early January. Once these are corrected, I shall be uploading it!
Another development will be Elements (the core rules) version 3.5. Some small additions to the skills and some of the graphics will be changing. Little tweaks, but nothing to write home about.

I hope you all had a fabulous New Year and I look forward to seeing some of you on the forums!.

## Icar Forum
_2003/10/14_

Like many other sites that offer a free service, we are open to automated spam programs. As we are all sick and tired of seeing adverts for unsavoury sites amongst our roleplaying posts I have set up a new Icar forum, all swish and fancy. You can find a link to it on the menu bar

## Pages added to the Timeline
_2003/10/01_

Two new pages have been added to the Timeline, the Age of Enlightenment and the Genus Plague sections have been added. I will keeping adding more to this timeline as each page is not difficult to do (until I get to the Aran War, that is) and it's a nice sanity break.

I am still plodding on with the _Scavenger Setting_, I would like to give a date for Alpha proof reading, but I don't want to get anyone's hopes up. After the Scavenger Setting, I'll probably do the Technology explanations, which needs updating from the rather old-fashioned HTML.

## No updates, I hear you say?
_2003/08/25_

A few people have emailled me recently, wondering why nothing has been added to the site for some time. There are three distinct reasons for this. Firstly, I have finished my PhD thesis and handed it in. Secondly, I now have a girlfriend. Lastly, I have been writing the Scav Setting, which has slipped somewhat but should be available for proof reading very soon. As for 'no updates', do not forget to check out the Revisions page, where you will see some additions to the equipment index. Little updates, I add there, leaving this main page for this big stuff. So, next time you're wondering why nothing has been done, check out the Revisions page!

## Virtual Game Session
_2003/05/29_

On the 8th April 2000, Byrnie brought his digital camera to the game session and made a photographic record of what went on. I've finally got round to making a page out of them. It's listed in the Players Section under Virtual Game Session. The only thing I need is a description of me from one of the players that were there.

## Equipment Index Version 5
_2003/05/10_

The monolithic Equipment Index is now finished. Only 26 pages, but it serves a great index of the equipment sheets. Of course, there will be endless updates now, but that is only to be expected! Next thing to do is the Special Forces setting. It never ends...

## Equipment Index Facelift In Motion
_2003/05/07_

It was always going to be a big job, the Equipment Index is a large tome as it is. It's well under way now. Many of the index sheets have been updates (not yet uploaded) and the new Equipment Index pdf is nearly finished. 

Compiling the data was a large job and it would have taken many hours if it wasn't for the steadfast help of Dwain, so a big thanks to him! You can expect the new version of the Equipment Index at some point this week. After that, I'll finish the Star Fleet Special Forces setting, which has been sitting near-finished for ages now!

## Equipment Index Faclift Begun
_2003/04/25_

I have started work on the face lift for the equipment index. As you'll notice, the superfluous white pages are gone, replaced with all the weapons on the main web page. The information in the old index will become a PDF Equipment Book, which will also detail all the information on the sheets for those people that don't want to download all the weapon sheets! 

This is a first small step, but it is a neccesary one. It might also spur me to Lightwave those hand drawn items that look a little worse for wear. One can only hope.

## Updates asunder
_2003/04/25_

Many bits and pieces have been done recently. For the sharp eyed among you, you'll have noticed the steady updates to the equipment index but now there are a wealth of little updates all over the ruleset. Society has been given a minor face lift (especially in a couple of later sections) and the Elements have had a few tidbits added (thanks Dave) but nothing really worth a reprint. Bionics, on the other hand, has had a lot of little updates and is worth a look. The general cogniscente believe that a setting in PDF format is the next thing to do, so that is what I'll do and the winner is: Special Forces.

## Society and Bionics
_2003/04/01_

I've been busying away on these two books in parallel for some time now and they're ready for download! Society is the updated version 1.0 of the background book (was version 0.9) and Bionics is the _new_ book of human alteration, including explanations of technology and the systems themselves. As ever, there is always more to do and the Technology section is looming on the horizon!

## All Quiet on the Icar Front
_2003/04/01_

Some people have noted that there hasn't been any news recently. I have been putting some effort into the weekly game I run and thus have not been able to do any major updates. A few graphics here and there. Coming soon will be the PDF version of Society. It's written, just awaiting graphics to go with it! Do check out the Revisions page because all the small updates get put in there. I hope to get Society finished by the end of April, which will be a welcome landmark.

## Strings Version 1.1 is Released
_2003/03/02_

Now proceeding with ever increasing speed, Icar's next step to conversion to PDF has hit with the Strings, Icar's Gamesmaster manual. Now with some extra sections on the Icarian model and a fully featured contents, this is the second section to be completed. Society is next...

## Version 3.4 is Released
_2003/02/25_

After many hours sweating in front of a computer, Version 3.4 has finally been finished! The new version includes some updates to the rules (new Stun, damage rules and psychotheatrics) as well as a proper book format. Unfortunately, it's now 8MB in size (rather than just shy of 2MB), but the pdf format will allow more people to print and access it with less hassle.

Work now begins on all the other sections that need converting! The work never ends..

## PDF Countdown and PHP::
_2003/02/04_

The stage is set, the pdf features are being configured, the words are being proofread. More resources are being added. Yes, it's 3.4. It's the new rules set. Yes, it's easy to print, yes it is over 90 pages. Yes it is better.

On another aside, it seems that the quite wonderful Bullet Systems has installed PHP and MySQL onto the server. This means (to my Joy) that I can start writing in PHP. It's likely that you will be seeing some alterations to the Icar website over the next few weeks, including a new Forum and more! Well done Bullet!

## Game Page
_2002/12/31_

Little update. Purely for fun, I have uploaded a new Game Page which lists all the Max Death sessions since December 2002. I'll add to it as and when we run some more! You can find it in the Player's Menu.

## Keep Your Eyes Peeled
_2012/11_

Some visitors have noted to me that not much has changed on the site recently. Well, this is a little bit of a misnoma as they have obviously just been reading this first new page. Don't forget that only large items or massive re-revisions go into the start page, smaller changes happen all over the site. The most updated page is the Revisions Page which holds every alteration and entry into the system.

The PDF conversion is moving along, I have only done a few pages but the arduous task of page setting and making templates has finished. All things being well, I should have a PDF Elements set by Christmas.

## Explanation Page
_2012/11_

It was mentioned on many an occasion from people all over the place that there should be a 'quick and dirty' explanation page regarding what Icar is all about. So now I have done one.

## Deep Space Scavenger Setting Added
_2002/10/16_

The first of the three settings, the Deep Space Scavenger setting has finally rolled of the production line and is ready for download on the Society page. The setting includes all the character information required to play the game. The GM setting will follow shortly, as most of the information needs to be kept away from the players that are playing the game at the moment.

The last place on the Scav team has been taken by Tim Pulham, welcome aboard! If you're desperate to play, we might be able to squeeze one more in.

## Botchery Clipper Group Added
_2002/10_

The new team is now underway and I have updated the players pages to cover them. Check out the Players Page and the Player List. There is still one free place, if you fancy joining in, then it's not too late. If you fancy it, [email me!](mailto:roblang@icar.co.uk).

## Elements V3.3 Online
_2002/09/21_

If you're going to do a reprint, now is the time. Version 3.3 with L-R justified text is now ready for Download. It includes the new damage system (to be known as "Half and Tenths"), some new examples, new psychotheatrics and many tweaks. The next Icar session will be using 3.3.

## Timeline Sheets Relinked
_2002/09/12_

Disappearing somewhere into the mire of site updates, the timeline sheets are back up once again in the Strings section. probably only Dwain will download them to add to his collection, but they are meant for GMs!

## Society Background in Swing
_2002/08/27_

I have begun sorting out the Society once more, finishing off the planetary stuff and now getting on with the Orbital information. Now at 30 pages, the whole section is still going strong.

## New Full Page Image (Again)
_2002/08/08_

Another quick render for your viewing pleasure. This time, it is a Circ Orbital, as used for mining operations. Pick it up from the Full Page Images page.

## Interface Tweaks
_2002/08/08_

The sharp eyed among you will have noticed a few minor tweaks. Most things I've been thinking about doing for ages.

## The Fear Ends
_2002/08/07_

It is with a tear in my eye that I report that the long running team, the Fear has ended. A group that has run for nearly three years, from very humble beginnings to greatness and then a great fall when an SEC was murdered during an operation. To pay homage to this group, I have set up a web page which I hope the players add their points of view to in the near future.

## Interactive Fiction
_2002/07/28_

Taking some time out from the Thesis (the damned thing), I have decided to start some interactive fiction on Icar. The concept is to have stories which have branches at various stages, allowing the reader to choose direction. After a while, the size of the stories increase to the point where there are many different routes to take. I've started with a little story which is only linear at the moment and only I can post to the story, however we'll alter this to change in a while. It in the World menu under Interactive Stories. Enjoy!

## Icar Spy
_2002/06/30_

As a step in the right direction, I have converted the Chom Isis Two Stat system into the new Icar spy. I can't remember why I didn't convert it when I did the page anew. probably Chom's fault. You can now see how many people have visited the site and so on. Very nice. it's located in the Tools section under Icar Spy.

## Droid Information
_2002/06/25_

At last, the first step into making a completely playable game is done. The Droid Section is provided with the Strings and should only really be seen by the GMs (otherwise it will spoil the surprise). Now all that is needed is the SFSF pages and the Max Death game is ready!

## Icar Timeline 1945
_2002/06/08_

The first page in the detailed timeline is now up for your perusal.